# Basic Password Security

At some point in your career, you may be asked to develop a system to authenticate users with a username and a password.
That seems like a pretty innocent request, right?

## Welcome to Cyber Security! Prepare to have your whole career ruined in 3... 2...

1...
I'm not joking.
There aren't many innocent mistakes you could make as a software engineer which would actually ruin your career,
but mis-managing users' passwords can *definitely, 100%* be a **career-ending mistake**.
Data-breaches, and loss of users' personally identifying information is no joke,
and you absolutely do **NOT** want to be the one responsible when that happens (and it WILL happen).

### "But I don't want to lose my job! :'("

Then fear not, because the solution here is actually very simple:
whenever you need to authenticate a user's identity, just make someone else do it for you
(that way, when something inevitably goes wrong, that other person will be the one to get fired instead of you).
The most common way to accomplish this is through a protocol called *"OAuth"*,
which we'll cover in much more detail in the [next article](./6c.%20OAuth.md).

But wait!
Before you go off and pick some other company to protect your application through OAuth,
you need to understand a little bit more about the things that company will actually do behind the scenes in order to keep your
users' passwords safe from prying eyes.
Ultimately, this comes down to two things: password processing, and password policy.

