# What is Unit Testing?

Take a look at some of the code that you wrote for CSE017. How confident are you that your code will always work - under any circumstance?

Would you trust it to invest \$100,000? How about flying a plane? How about deciding an election?
Maybe not. But programmers do have to write software for all of those contexts. So - how do they do it? They employ unit tests.

Unit testing establishes a base set of criteria that code must reach before it is deemed ready to be used.

# How Do We Write Unit Tests?

We'll get into what the code for this looks like when we talk about frameworks - but here is what to keep in mind. There are two general strategies for unit tests.

We can write logical assertions. For example, "if we are showing the user the login button, then we will not show the user the logout button".

We could also create situational assertions. For example, in the context of a plane's computer, "when we feed this sensor data into our old system and our new system - we expect the same output."
(This second one tends to be the more practical, more common strategy)

# Better Tests, Not More Tests

As we discussed previously, the better tests we have, the more confident we can be that our code will work. But, that doesn't mean more tests. To use our previous example, just because we are using more flight sensor data doesn't inherently imply our tests are better. Those new examples might use the same parts of the codebase.

The best unit tests would hit all of the possible edge cases and run every line of code in your file. This strategy is called '100% coverage', and while it is possible, it is often difficult to do in practice. The rule is that the higher the percentage coverage of your unit tests, the more confident you can be that your code won't produce unexpected behavior. So, do you need robust unit testing in the context of a hackathon, probably not. Would you want it for the computer that is in your car, absolutely.
