# Software Design Patterns

In the process of writing production-level software, every developer should have a keen sense of how much code they are reusing, both within the same file and/or across different ones. Whether it be a line-for-line translation or the encapsulated logic, generally speaking, repeating code in different locations is an invitation for buggy software.

### So what are Design Patterns?
Because many challenges in software development arise cyclically when maintaining current systems or building new ones, **Design Patterns** were created with the intention to provide developers with a **reusable solution to commonly occuring problems within a given context.**

These patterns are not finished designs, or algorithms, rather they act like **blueprints or templates for your platform** to solve a particular problem. Most importantly, Design Patterns are **formalized best practices** because they are time-tested solutions to recurring software design challenges. This makes them very important to understand and use whenever you can!

### Why do we use Design Patterns?
These Software Design Patterns have a few major benefits:

1. Provide developers with a way to solve issues related to software development using a **proven solution.** 

2. Facilitate the development of highly cohesive modules with minimal interdependence.
   
3. Isolate the variability that may exist in the system to improve understandability and reduce maintenance effort.

4. Improve communication and understanding amongst fellow developers to make design and implementation more cohesive and efficient.


## What's in this Guide?
- [Types of Software Design Patterns](./7b.%20Types%20of%20Software%20Design%20Patterns.md)
- [Creational Patterns](./7c.%20Creational%20Patterns.md)
- [Structural Patterns](./7d.%20Structural%20Patterns.md)
- [Behavioral Patterns](./7e.%20Behavioral%20Patterns.md)
- [Concurrency Patterns](./7f.%20Concurrency%20Patterns.md)


## Where to Next?
- [Next: Types of Software Design Patterns](./7b.%20Types%20of%20Software%20Design%20Patterns.md)
- [Back: CSE6cubed](../README.md)