## NPM:

Npm is the node pacakage manager and is used for managaing dependencies within a Javascript project. A file called package.json is generated, where dependency names and their versions are stored. Here is an example:

~~~~
{
  "dependencies": {
    "react": "16.13.1",
  }
}
~~~~

Note that that only thing this file is actually storing is what dependencies we want to be installed for our project as well as our version. This is a good time to talk about versioning rules inside a package.json file. Also, a package.json file may store more information about an application like its name and version, but that is not discussed here.

### Semantic Versioning
*Note*: Semantic versioning is typically broken into three numerals: Major.Minor.Patch
* Major Versions: Significant changes and new features, this may break your code
* Minor Versions: Adds new features in a backward compatiable manor (should not break your code, but might)
* Patch Versions: Fixes bugs (should really never break your code, but rarely might)

Semantic versioning is how we can decide what software packages we want to use for a project. The most basic is demonstrated in the above example, but this code snippit shows more examples and discusses their differences.

~~~~
{
  # There are not comments in package.json files usually, this is just for show
  "dependencies": {
    # This is seeking a specific version of react, 16.13.1
    "react": "16.13.1",
    # This is getting version 7.9.4 or any higher PATCH version so 7.9.5 could be okay, but not 7.10.x
    "firebase": "~7.9.4"
    # This is getting version 3.2.8 or any higher MINOR/PATCH version so 3.2.9 or 3.3.0 could be okay, but not 4.x.x
    "expo": "^3.2.8"
  }
}
~~~~

There are other tools available for dictating versioning, but these are the most common.

## Yarn:

NPM was pretty great when it came out, but there was a problem with it's package.json file. If someone was  developing an application with someone else and shared their package.json file, there is no guarantee that when they build the project they will get the same dependency versions (for example, in the above example, if the original developer got firebase 7.9.4, it is possible that the next time it is built by someone else, version 7.9.5 has be released and that will be used instead without anyone noticing)

Yarn set out to fix this problem with the lock file. Basically, when you build a project, you save the specific dependency versions that you used into a file so that anyone else who uses it can use those specific versions instead of going off of package.json. NPM has since adapted and now uses package-lock.json.

It is worth noting that Yarn is still different from NPM though. For instance, it is faster than NPM and has some additional tools like "yarn why" that you can lookup if you want. The differences are inconsequential enough that these tools are very comparable.

## Cargo:

## PIP:
