## History And Definition: 
Once upon a time, there was a computer scientist. She downloaded and compiled all the software she used to support her applications by hand. She was good at defeating bugs when they arose, but she thought "Is there a better way?" And thus, package managers were born.

A Package Manager is a piece of software that is used to coordinate "dependencies", which are other pieces of software that support whatever you are building. They exist to make downloading, compiling, and storing dependencies more simple.

## Examples

There are many different package managers that are suited for different purposes. 
* maven is used for Java projects
* npm is used for Javascript projects
* apt is used for Ubuntu and Debian Linux distributions
* Many, many, more

## Why they're good

Package managers are great because they make things for programmers needing advanced algorithms or data structures easy! Someone who is a much better programmer than all of us wrote a better, well tested solution.

Another benefit to using these libraries is that - because they are open source, anyone can see + improve the code. This makes them more efficient and secure.

## Possible Problems

Managing software is a rather difficult problem and package managers are not a perfect solution. Often, programmers can end up in [this bad place](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependency_hell) because dependencies they are using are not compatiable with other dependencies!

It is important to balance updating software (to remove bugs and get new features) with ensuring updates don't brick your code due to version incompatiability.
