## Agile

Agile is a design philosophy that focuses on rapid, iterative development which a focus on continuous value delivery. Agile is an overall family of Agile-implementations, some of which are described below. There are more methods than could be possible to list, and most real-world implementations borrow from several of these methods. These are just some good buzzwords to understand and be able to talk about in your interviews. Some common things that most Agile implementations share are described here.

### Common Agile Things
- Sprints - The "unit" of Agile, 2-3 week periods (on average) with deliverables at the end of the sprint. Plans are designed to be estimated within the context of a sprint length. You're supposed to plan for the sprint, and not be over or under-estimate progress to the best of your ability.
- Sprint Planning - Happens at the beginning of the sprint, you plan on all the work that will happen in the sprint. Big focus is about assigning people with ownership of specific tasks. Focus is to be accurate, not over or under promise (though you should build in stuff-will-go-wrong buffer). Plan in for testing and code reviews, as any big software project has that.
- Stand-ups - Daily meetings where everyone goes around and says what they worked on yesterday, what they're working on today, and just general project updates. Designed to be quick meetings to the point where you shouldn't even need to sit down.
- Sprint Review - At the end of the Sprint, the team should sit down and talk about what was accomplished, what worked for the team, and what didn't work for the team. Designed to have a focus on actions of improvement for next sprint. OFten followed by the sprint planning meeting for the next sprint.

### Agile Implementations

#### Scrum

Probably the most common implementation of Agile in today's world of development. Probably the most interesting aspect of Scrum is the team structure:
- Product Owner - Someone who serves as a liaison between the technical team and the business requirements. Generally skews more towards non-coders/business administrator, but doesn't have to. Represents and advocates for the "customer" and their needs, whoever the customer/end user of the product may be. 
- Scrum Master - Generally serves as the team lead/engineering manager. Interfaces between the team and the product owner, reminds everyone and implements scrum practices, runs meetings, and the like. Does some development, but also a lot of technical requirement gathering along with the Product Owner. Plans a lot of the sprint and assigns work along with the team.
- Scrum Team - The engineering team, team size varies between 5-20 developers, though most times it stays under 10. Designed to be a collaborative environment, no one developer should be a "superman" pulling others along. Focus on solving problems, not one-upping each other.

#### Extreme Programming (XP)

Basically a bare-bones version of Scrum, where the management structure is condensed to the point where every developer is a product owner and team member. It's called Extreme for a reason, and generally is only implemented for small, experienced teams with high-touch products with lots of required customer feedback.

#### Kanban

Kanban is borrowed from manufacturing, specifically from the day sof Toyota's just-in-time manufacturing system, which focuses on ultra-efficient production. Kanban has a focus on visualizing where the product is currently, and is often used as the visual arm of other development methodologies. The name Kanban actually refers to the literal bins that were used in manufacturing that were labeled: "Not Started", "In Progress", and "Done" (like you'll see on some desks for papers).
- Kanban focuses on first estimating tasks in terms of difficulty (NOT time), then setting up a system where tasks go from "Not Started -> In Progress -> Done"
- Kanban estimations usually use Fibonacci numbers (1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21) as a means of semi-quantitatively/semi-qualitatively measuring task difficulty. Numbers can mean different things to different people, but for example 13 represented the work of 1 full-time developer for 1 sprint.
- How Kanban translates effort into exact expected work hours is not a complete science, but generally involves both quantitative work that needs to be done + qualitative how hard the work that needs to get done is. For example, task A that has 1 unit of effort could have the same time estimation as task B which has 5 units of effort if task A is a lot of trivial work and task B is a small amount of very difficult work.
- Work is generally assigned as people become available or get blocked on other work - the numbers become useful for estimating the work required on a project.

### Real World Implementations of Agile
#### Microsoft Azure DevOps - Azure Boards
This is an industry-standard technology that's used at a variety of software companies, both big and small. This uses agile methodology, among other related things in the development cycle.

[Check out how Agile/Sprints are implemented](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SbFKi6Hflc0)

[Check out the introduction video for an overview of the system](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhqpF-5E10I)

### Read More
- [Right Agile Methodology](https://kanbanize.com/blog/right-agile-methodology-for-your-project/)
- [Scrum](https://www.scrum.org/resources/what-is-scrum)
- [Scrum, What it is, and Why It's Awesome](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/scrum)
- [What is Extreme Programming?](https://www.lucidchart.com/blog/what-is-extreme-programming)
- [What is Kanban?](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/kanban)
- [Microsoft Azure DevOps - Azure Boards](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/boards/get-started/what-is-azure-boards?view=azure-devops&tabs=agile-process)
